[music playing]
Throw it over here.
Come on, butterfingers.
Throw it here.
Come on.
OK, let's play ball.
Come on now.
Hey, Murph.
What do you want?
Let me in, will ya?
Get out of here.
I got some Sweet Caporal cards.
Who you got?
Hans Wagner.
Grover Cleveland Alexander.
Them old-timers?
Tris Speaker, Johnny Evers?
Has-beens.
Christy Mathewson.
A dime a dozen.
Who you holding out?
Babe Ruth.
A rookie.
Come on, let's play ball.
Come on.
Three strikes and he's out.
Put it over the plate now.
Come on.
He can't hit anything.
Oh, what the matter?
Sasha!
Yeah, Mom?
Your professors
here, come and take.
In a minute, Mom.
Not in a minute, Sasha, now.
All right.
Hey, you, come here.
You gonna let me
take his place, Murph?
Give me the cards.
Sure, Murph.
Can I keep Babe Ruth?
Keep him.
Gee, thanks, Murph.
OK, let's play ball.
Get off the sack.
OK, let's go.
Come on.
He's a southpaw.
Come on, over the plate now.
Let's see a good one.
What's your name?
Lou Gehrig.
Well, how about it?
We can't wait here all day.
I can't do anything
without my wife.
I didn't mean to do it, Mom.
I didn't know I
could hit that far.
He busted Colletti's window.
Baseball.
How much?
$18.50.
I told him, Mama, he
should carry glass insurance.
Mr. Coletti, let me
work it out after school.
I'll run errands.
I'll--
No, Louis, what we
break, we pay for.
$16.25, laves $2.25 I owe you.
I pay you Saturday.
OK, Mrs. Gehrig.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry too.
Me too, Mom.
You better be, young
Gehrig, but I'm telling
you, that was a mighty wallop.
I feel awful about it, Mom.
Honest, I do.
I'll pay you back the money.
I promised to fix Mrs.
Reagan's dumbwaiter.
It isn't just the money,
Lou, it's the time you waste.
I'll get my working papers.
I'll quit school.
Quit school?
How can you say that?
How many times
have I told you, I
want you to go to school and
high school and college and--
look at your papa, look at me.
We didn't go to school,
and what are we?
A janitor, a cook.
I want you to be somebody.
Sure, Mom, sure.
Like your Uncle Otto, Louie.
He went to university,
he graduated.
Don't you see, Louie, that's
why I'm cooking at Columbia,
so you can go there
someday be an engineer
like your Uncle Otto.
Mom, maybe I ain't cut
out to be an engineer.
What do you want to be?
I wanna be a--
I don't know, Mom.
You have got to know.
In this country, you can
be anything you want to be.
Don't you want to be an
engineer like your Uncle Otto?
Don't you?
Sure, Mom, sure.
Whatever you want me to be.
This fraternity has standards.
You just can't
ignore his family.
Yeah, but he's a cinch
to be a four-letter man.
His mother is the
best cook at Columbia.
Somehow that doesn't add up
to Sigma Alpha Psi in my mind.
Oh, Lou's all right, Van.
Just trying to maintain
a certain standard.
Gold standard?
How'd you like to
get this right in the--
[interposing voices]
Hold on, hold on, hold on.
Let's put it to a vote.
All those in favor of
pledging Lou Gehrig?
Carried.
Go ahead.
That's what you want, I
won't stand in your way.
Hang a pledge pin
on him, but don't
expect me to call him brother.
Let's eat.
I don't know why
this has to happen
every night before dinner.
[interposing voices]
You certainly
smacked that ball
around this afternoon, Lou.
Yeah.
Tough on the guys who
live in the dormitory.
You never know when
you're going to get
a baseball in your geometry.
What's your
batting average now?
I'll swap it for
your math grade.
Hold it, Lou.
Gee, thanks.
Thanks, fellas.
This is an honor.
You know, I'm not
much on talking.
I'd just like to
say thanks, fellas.
Welcome in, Lou.
He's a swell guy.
Hi, Mom.
What?
I just said hi.
Hi.
The soup is getting cold.
Mom?
What?
Look.
Oh, Lou, they took you in.
Yeah, just now.
Oh, Lou, everything
is going so fine now.
First Columbia,
then a fraternity.
And the next thing, you
will be an engineer.
This is just the pledge pin.
I get the real pin before long.
And when I get it, I'm supposed
to give it to my best girl.
You still my best girl, Ma?
Always.
It'll mean you'll have
to go steady with me.
You can't even look
at anybody else.
Not even Papa?
All right, Papa.
Well, Sam, I'm going
to build my football
team around a new man next
fall, a great half back.
Somebody gunning for you, Jim?
Well, I guess it's always
open season on football coaches,
especially you sportswriters.
Oh, say, that's the half back
I was telling you about, Lou
Gehrig, a line-plunging fool.
Football?
For a kid that can hit
a baseball this far?
Well, Sam, there's
a pretty stiff
wind blowing this direction.
Yeah, and that
wind could blow him
right into the major leagues.
Oh,no, lay off, will ya, Sam?
That's what happened
to Eddie Collins,
the greatest second baseman
we ever had at Columbia.
It's spread all over
the sports pages,
and the first
thing we know, he's
playing professional baseball.
Lay off of this
kid, will ya, Sam?
I'm a newspaper man, Jim,
and that sure was some wallop.
All right, of you
won't introduce me,
then I'll just go right
up and introduce myself.
I simply can't dare
not meeting him.
Oh, Mr. Gehrig?
I suppose you'll think
I'm terribly fresh,
but I just couldn't
stand it another minute.
Lou, you seemed to
have made a conquest.
Mile-a-minute Myra, the
All-American prom-trotter.
Miss Tinsley, may I
present Mr. Gehrig?
How do you do?
I do, Mr. Gehrig,
is just wonderful.
What chance have I got
against a great athlete?
Pay no attention to me, you
two, I'll just go away somewhere
and drink myself to death.
Aren't you going
to ask me to dance?
Wouldn't you condescend to
dance with a little Miss
Nobody like me?
I guess I don't dance
very well, Miss Tinsley.
Oh, you and your modesty.
Athletes do everything well.
Don't you want to dance with me?
Would you care to
dance, Miss Tinsley?
I'd adore to.
I could just die
dancing with you.
But it seems such
a waste of time.
I want to talk to you.
I know a place where we
can be all by our lonesome.
It'll be just wonderful.
You know what?
I never danced
before in my life.
Oh, now.
I wouldn't kid ya.
I'd never kid you.
I was scared stiff,
Miss Tinsley.
Myra.
Would you like to dance again?
Later.
First, I want to
know all about you.
Now, Go on, tell me.
There isn't anything.
Ah, now, a great big
famous person like you?
Well, you've even had
your name in the paper.
Tell me, do you
just adore baseball?
You see, I'm not going
to be a ballplayer.
Mom wants me to be an engineer.
And you're going to do
what your mother wants?
Of course.
I think that's--
that's just adorable.
You're going to be an old
engineer who never gets
his name in the
paper or anything,
just because your
mother wants you to.
You're wonderful.
You're the one
that's wonderful.
Now, Mr. Gehrig.
Lou.
Are you going to
remember me, Lou?
Remember you?
Maybe these will help you to.
Of course, they will,
because they're like you.
(SINGING) Night and
day time, always play--
Hey, Mira.
Where have you been?
How about our dance?
Oh.
Excuse me, Lou?
[whistling]
Well, here he is now,
the pride of the ballroom.
Quit kidding, will ya?
I wouldn't kid you.
I'd never kid you.
Come on, come on, eats.
Nice work, Lou.
You're wonderful.
No, I'm not.
You're the one that's wonderful.
What are you going to
be when you grow up, Van?
Well, I'd like to be
a great big fireman,
because I'm so good at it.
But the mater won't let me,
she wants me to be a motorman.
Hey, what is all this?
Oh, Van, even though the big
league teams are begging you
on their bended knees to join
them, you will remember us,
won't you?
Why, I don't need anything
to make me remember you.
But I'd like to have the these
because they're like you.
Lou, hey, Lou.
Hey.
Lou.
He was only joking, Lou.
Oh, Lou, there's a fellow
from the Yankees looking for ya.
- Oh, more jokes, huh?
- No.
Gehrig?
My name's Blake.
Miller Huggins of
the Yankees says he--
Oh, you're trying
to be funny too, huh?
Hey, wait a minute.
Say, Lou?
What made you give Mr. Blake
the rush act last night?
He came up to your fraternity
house to do you a favor.
You mean that he--
you mean that you want to--
Now, wait a minute.
Let's start all over again.
This is Sam Blake of
the "Evening Standard."
Lou Gehrig.
There's no law
that says you have
to played with the Yankees,
but it's no insult to be asked.
Yankees?
You mean the New York Yankees?
Not the Chillicothe Yankees.
Oh, thanks.
Gee, that's wonderful, but
I'm going to be an engineer.
Engineer.
POP GEHRIG: Don't
get up, Mother.
I'll get it for you.
MA GEHRIG: I can do it.
I'm all right.
POP GEHRIG: No, you
are not all right.
You stay here.
What's the matter, Pop?
POP GEHRIG: Mama's sick.
MA GEHRIG: It's nothing.
POP GEHRIG: It's something, Lou.
I'll get a doctor.
MA GEHRIG: Never
mind, he'll cost $2.
I'll get him.
We must get your wife to
the hospital immediately.
The General Hospital is
really crowded just now,
but I'll see if I can
make arrangements.
There must be room
in one of the wards.
Ma's not going to a ward.
She's going to have the best
of everything, a good room
in a private hospital.
But beggars can't be choosers.
A private hospital
costs money, and where
are we going to get it?
I know where I can get it.
Tell the doc not to bother.
I'll make all the arrangements.
Aren't you even going to
read what you're signing?
No, I'm in a hurry.
Well, just in case
you're interested,
you're the property of the
New York Yankees from now on.
Only, I think we'll have to
smooth off the rough edges.
Now, to start with,
I'm going to send
you up to play with Hartford.
Here you are.
- Thank you.
Bye.
Bye, Blake.
Try to keep your
afternoons free, will ya?
LOU: Sure, sure.
Maybe he signed
with the wrong team.
He's nutty enough to play
with the Brooklyn Dodgers.
You'll never be
sorry you signed him.
That's wonderful,
Louie, wonderful.
But one thing I
don't understand,
they send you from
New York to Hartford
to bring you back to New York.
I will never understand America.
You see, they're
sending me there
for the experience I need.
That's the way they work it.
Uh-huh.
How are you going to work it?
Work what?
Mama.
Oh.
MA GEHRIG: Louie.
How's my best girl?
Fine.
Mama, I've got to
go make a phone call.
Hey, wait a minute,
grab a hold of that.
How they treating you, Ma?
Wonderful.
Good.
I can't get over how much
they give you here for nothing.
Why, all the city
hospitals are free, Ma.
Everybody treats
me like a queen.
Mom?
Yes, Louie?
I want to tell you something.
Excuse me a minute.
It's-- it's
nothing, Mom, really.
I'm going away, Mom.
I'm going to Hartford.
You see, Mom, I--
Harvard.
That's wonderful.
Oh, Louie, you are going
to be a great engineer,
and Harvard's engineering
school is good, huh?
But, Louie, suppose she
finds out, what about me?
Protect yourself
in the clinches, Pop.
What about mail?
Suppose Mom writes you?
She'll write the
letters, but you mail them.
What about the money
you will be sending me?
How will I explain that?
Tell her you got a job.
Job?
Who?
Me?
You.
Louie, wait.
What kind of a job?
Well, that's up to you.
All aboard.
Politics.
Good morning, Mrs. Gehrig.
Good morning, Roberts.
You saw the papers?
Papers?
The one says white,
the other black.
I never read them.
You must be very
proud of your son.
My Lou, of course, but
I just can't get over
how wonderful everything is
with my husband, Mr. Gehrig,
you know?
My husband told
me in the hospital
how wonderful his job was.
I couldn't believe it.
You want to know when
he leaves for work?
When he feels like it.
When he doesn't feel like it,
he doesn't go to work at all.
Political, at $25 a week.
Wow.
What is it, Papa?
What's the matter?
Nothing.
- Now, what?
- Nothing.
[doorbell]
Oh, I couldn't wait for
you to come to the door.
It's in the papers.
[interposing voices]
Gee, ain't it wonderful?
Shut up.
This is great news.
You should be a proud father.
You'll tell me later.
[interposing voices]
What is it all about?
Didn't you read in
the paper about Lou?
MA GEHRIG: Paper?
Lou?
Here it is.
Read it.
Yes.
Gehrig recalled by--
by Yankees.
We'll talk about it later.
We'll talk about it now.
LOU: Ma?
[interposing voices]
If you don't mind, I think
there a few things I ought
to talk over with the folks.
[interposing voices]
Well, how's my best girl, huh?
I better go too.
Where?
To work?
I'll be right back, Louie.
Mom?
About Hartford, I didn't
go there just because I
wanted to play baseball.
I went because we
needed the money.
You were sick and the
doctor said you might die.
I wish I had died
rather than see you
give up everything we planned.
For what?
To play ball.
A disgrace like that.
It's not such a disgrace
to play for the Yankees.
That's what we
came to America for.
A wonderful country where
everybody has an equal chance.
That's why you studied,
why you went to Columbia,
so that you could play baseball.
After all my plans for you to
follow after your Uncle Otto.
Uncle Otto's dead.
Yes, and he'd turn
over in his grave
if he knew what
happened in the family.
Mom?
People have to live
their own lives.
Nobody can live it for you.
Nobody could have made a
ballplayer out of Uncle Otto,
and nobody can make anything
but a ballplayer out of me.
Oh, you are good for nothing.
All baseballers are
good for nothing.
Loafers in short pants.
Mom?
You've never been
to a ball game.
Lots of people go every day
men, women, and children.
Maybe there's something to it.
Maybe it's fun.
Why don't you come
out some afternoon
and watch me play so you can
judge for yourself, huh, Mom?
What do you say?
MA GEHRIG: Never, never.
You sure we came to
the right ballpark?
Yes.
And those are not the players?
They are getting
the field ready, Mama.
What do they do
with the pillows?
They are not pillows.
They are bases.
You slide into them.
I slide into them?
Just watch, Mama, huh?
Just watch.
I can't understand it, so
many people with nothing to do.
Scorecard, get your
scorecard, folks.
You can't tell the players
without a scorecard, lady.
My own son, I can tell.
The others are none
of my business.
Is your son playing?
Sure.
Lou Gehrig.
Gehrig?
Never heard of him.
Substitute?
No.
Yankee.
Scorecard, get your
scorecard, folks.
Hello, Babe.
Hello, boys, how are ya?
Hey, Babe, was that
homer yesterday 38 or 39?
Don't know, but I'll
hit 'em and you count 'em.
Where's Lou?
I don't see him.
You sure we came to
the right ballpark?
What did you say the
name of this genius was?
Gehrig.
Henry Louis Gehrig.
$5 will get you $10, you
don't remember any part of it
next year.
Henry Blotto Gehrig.
Come on, Sam,
give me the ball.
Will you give me the ball?
[bell ringing]
Gehrig.
I want you to keep
your eye on Wally Pipp
out there on first base.
Now, I know you can hit, but
fielding is important too.
Yeah.
HECKLER 1: What's
the matter, Wally?
You getting weak?
Hit it.
HECKLER 2: It's down the middle.
Can't you see them?
Come on, Wally.
Take your time, Wally old boy.
You can do it.
Strike.
Time.
Better take me out, Miller.
I've been seeing double since
I was beaned the other day.
That's a tough break, Wally.
Have Doc look you over.
OK.
Too bad.
Hey, Gehrig?
Who me?
Yes, you.
Tangle foot.
Never mind that.
Get in there Pipp.
Now, get a hold of one, kid.
I know you can do it.
- OK.
Lot of pepper.
ANNOUNCER: Gehrig
now batting for Pipp.
You started
something, Eleanor.
Didn't I?
Dreadful, isn't it?
I seemed to have tied
a label on that rookie.
Safe.
Omit flowers, please.
Are you putting a jinx on him?
Oh, no, no, Sam, but you
ought to have a nurse around.
Are you OK?
I'm OK.
Better get to the clubhouse,
have the Doc look you over.
I'm all right, Mr. Huggins.
Don't take me out now.
I've been waiting
too long to get in.
What do we have to do?
Kill you to get you
out of the lineup?
Babe, we're waiting for ya.
What will it be
tonight, Mr. Ruth?
Well, I'll have
a couple of those,
smothered with pork chops.
Take it easy, Babe.
And mushrooms.
Maybe some nice fish?
Say, that's an idea.
Ah, the Yankees.
Enjoying your stay in Chicago?
Hello, losers.
Hello, Mr. Twitchell.
Gotta let them win
once in a while.
Hey.
There's your friend, the
Hot Dog King's daughter.
Yeah, tell them to bring some
horseshoes with them when they
come to New York next spring.
Oh, you can't win with alibis.
Oh, we weren't alibiing.
Hey, how's Tanglefoot?
Has he come to yet,
or can't you tell?
Hey, you gave that Rookie an
awful riding out there today.
Have you made up your
mind yet, Miss Twitchell?
Yeah, I think I'll have
some lamb chops and pineapple.
Hello, Mr. Blake.
Tanglefoot.
Miss Twitchell, Mr. Gehrig.
All right, we're even.
Well, if we're even, maybe
you'll sit down with us?
You're not going to
pull it out, are you?
Oh, no, no.
Well, Mr. Gehrig, I hear
this was your first game today.
My first appearance,
and am I glad to get
out of the lumber business, but
you don't know what that means.
That means that you--
I know what it means.
What does it mean?
Picking splinters off your
pants from sitting on the bench
so long.
I see.
How long do you expect to
stay off the bench, Mr. Gehrig?
Well, I tell ya, I've
got a hunch I'm going
to be playing for a long while.
Wally Pipp must be awful sick.
Say, what are you
doing with this Yankee?
- Hello, Sam.
- Hello, Mr. Twitchell.
This is my father, Mr. Gehrig.
How do you do?
Oh, the Yankee's new
first baseman, huh?
Yes, sir, at last.
I like the way you stand
up to the ball, Gehrig.
A lot of power there.
Thank you.
I see your father
knows a baseball
player when he sees one.
Yes, he stands up
to the plate fine.
Yes, he does.
He falls down on the bats
pretty good too, Dad.
Mr. Tanglefoot.
Won't you join
us, Mr. Twitchell?
Oh, thank you.
Say, uh, Blake, you
know a lot about women.
Huh?
Oh, yeah, sure.
What does it mean when
a girl says you remind
her of a Newfoundland puppy?
Well, if it was an
Airedale that would be bad,
or a police dog would be fatal,
but a Newfoundland puppy,
I'd see her again if I was you.
I think he's got
a pinochle deck.
Hey, where have you been, son?
Let me out of here.
Boys, where's Lou?
He get on the train all right?
Yeah, he got on.
Just hoping, that's all.
Look, I've watched this
game for four hands now--
[whistling]
Oh, oh, you've had
some swell hats, Babe,
but this one is tops.
It is beautiful.
Yeah?
Now, listen, you mugs,
lay off of this one.
If I see anyone touch it,
I'll knock his teeth in.
And I'm not kidding.
Oh, Babe, have a heart.
Deal me in.
Come on, ante up here.
We can look at
it, can't we, Babe?
You know, from a distance?
Don't try to kid me, Mark.
You busted my last one.
Me?
No.
Well, don't look too hard.
You know that's the fifth straw
hat I've bought this season,
and it's the last straw.
Oh, the last straw?
That's a good gag, Babe.
What a gag.
I'm in.
Give me three.
Jack?
- Two.
- Cy?
Two.
BABE: I'll bet a buck.
Go ahead, butch, take a bite.
If you're one of us,
you'll take a bite.
Take two bites.
Why, you--
The busher was hungry.
He didn't even
need cream and sugar.
That Gehrig's the
chump of all time,
fallen for a gag like that.
Oh, he doesn't
know about gags.
Yeah, what does he
know about, Mr. Bones?
Baseball.
He knows.
I'll tell you something.
A guy like that is a
detriment to any sport.
He's a boob with a batting eye.
He wakes up, brushes his teeth,
hikes out to the ballpark,
hits the ball, hikes
back to the hotel room,
reads the funny papers,
gargles, and goes to bed.
That's personality, huh?
The best.
A real hero.
Let me tell you
about heroes, Hank.
I've covered a lot of
them, and I'm saying
Gehrig is the best of the.
Hm.
No front page scandals,
no daffy excitements,
no horn piping in the spot--
No nothing.
But a guy who does his
job and nothing else.
He lives for his job.
He gets a lot of fun out of
it, and 50 million other people
get a lot of fun out of him.
Watching him do something
better than anybody
else ever did it before.
You'd be right, Sam,
if all baseball fans
were as big boobs as Gehrig.
They are the same
kind of boobs as Gehrig.
Only without a batting eye.
That's why I'm putting
my money on Gehrig.
There's a package
for you, Louie.
I'll take it, Mom.
I'll open it.
Maybe I better pack
it just like it is.
No, no.
I open it.
Where did you say you
play first, Louie?
Chicago.
It's a great town.
They call me
Tanglefoot in Chicago.
Tanglefoot?
Yeah, only she didn't mean it.
I think.
Who?
That's the way you
talk about a city, Mom.
A city's always she.
Ships too.
What's this, Louie?
Well, that's my new suit.
You never had one
like this before.
It's what they call a tuxedo.
Some people call it a tux.
You wear it when
you go out at night.
To a smoker.
Louie, am I still
your best girl?
Oh.
Take care of my girl, Pop.
Have you seen Mr.
Twitchell lately?
Twitchell?
Yeah, the fellow we
met at the Rathskellar
that night, remember?
I didn't know he'd
made such an impression.
Say you wanted to
find Mr. Twitchell, you
what would you do?
But I don't want to
find Mr. Twitchell.
Don't worry, you're bound to run
into Eleanor one of these days.
Eleanor?
Yes, she'll know
where her father is.
It's really quite simple.
I'll bet Twitchell
misses you too.
Pardon me.
Hello, Miss Twitchell.
Hello, Mr. Blake.
With us again, hm?
Back again.
Is your father around?
One of the boys is very
anxious to see him.
Oh, who?
Lou Gehrig.
Oh.
Oh, yes, he's talked an
awful lot about your father.
He's practically talked
about nothing else.
Really?
Gehrig, snap out
of it, will ya?
HECKLER 1: Gehrig,
what's the matter.
You asleep?
You did it again, mister.
Here's your Doll.
Would you go away?
Would you please go away?
All right, mister, you're next.
See if you can be
as lucky as he was.
How am I doing?
I guess that does it.
Shall we eat?
Don't you want to
see me shoot first?
Come on, gents,
it's only a nickel.
Well, he wins a prize.
Here you are, sir.
That's how easy it is.
That little fellow
must be awful strong.
Yeah.
Try it again, mister, just
to prove that wasn't a fluke.
Go on, try it-- now, then
watch him, here he goes.
He did it before.
he'll do it again.
Well, he did it again.
Hey, I've never tried that.
I'll ring the bell once for you.
How about eating?
I'll just smack it once.
There you are, sir.
You're next.
All right, now--
He's a big fellow.
I'll bet he'll probably
break the bell.
Yeah.
He looks like a strong fella.
he might break the machine.
Well, let's eat.
Oh, why, Lou, aren't you
gonna ring the bell for me?
What would you like to eat?
Oh, I'm really not so hungry.
Go ahead and try it.
The whole time
you've been here,
you've been saying
how hungry you are.
Well, I must have
waited too long
then, because I'm
not hungry now.
Oh, you, mister,
the little lady
wants to see how strong you are.
Don't disappoint
the little lady.
Come right over.
Step right up.
Ring the bell, win a prize.
That's all you have to do.
Don't disappoint
the little lady.
There you are.
Test your strength.
That's all there is to it.
Ring the bell, and win a prize.
Well, that's too bad.
Try again, mister.
Try again.
Wait a minute, mister.
Hold this.
Look, you gotta get
your wrist into it.
Understand?
In anything athletic, you
gotta get the wrist in.
Now watch me.
Stand back.
Watch him, folks.
Watch him.
Here he goes.
Well, he did it again.
See.
Here.
Try it.
All there is to it.
Like this?
Yeah, that's it.
Ring the bell and win a prize.
There.
Beat it, brother.
Now, we eat.
Oh, boy.
What would you like to eat?
Oh, hot dogs and champagne.
Good.
(SINGING) I'll be
loving you always.
With a love that's true always.
When the things you've
planned need a helping hand,
I will understand always.
Always.
Days may not be fair
always, that's when
I'll be there always.
Not for just an hour,
not for just a day,
not for just a year, but always.
Well, Mr. Gehrig, to
you first World Series.
Oh, don't say that.
Not yet.
We've got six more
cities waiting for us,
and anything can happen.
Did you realize this is my last
night in Chicago this season?
And this is goodbye?
What a lot of them.
Six more to go,
six more goodbyes.
Six more what?
Well, you play in seven
cities when you're on the road,
you must have a
girl in every city?
A ballplayer is a lot
like a sailor, isn't he?
A girl in every port?
What's Miss Boston's name?
I never said I had
a girl in Boston.
Haven't you?
What about Philadelphia?
St. Louis?
Cleveland?
Detroit?
Washington?
New York?
You forgot Chicago.
ELEANOR: Chicago?
Who?
Aren't you my girl?
Why, Lou, I don't know
what you mean by your girl.
You're best girl?
Is that what you mean?
I guess that's what I mean.
I guess I thought you were.
Why?
Whatever gave you that idea?
I've seen you
four days in a row,
and you're out with
me here tonight.
Isn't that what best girls do?
Is it?
I wonder if I'm
going to miss you?
Can't you find
out before I go?
Nope.
It's that too bad?
Why is it like that?
I have no idea.
Seems silly, doesn't it?
I like that tune, don't you?
Dance with me?
Lou, if I do miss you, I wish
I knew how much I'm going to.
I wish you knew before I left.
Shall I try?
How?
Well, shall I--
Lou, where do you go from here?
Detroit.
All right, I'll
close my eyes and make
believe it's tomorrow night, and
I'm dancing with someone else.
Yeah, I get the idea, uh-huh.
All right, ready?
Are you in Detroit?
Yep, I'm sitting in the
lobby of the Statler Hotel.
Who am I dancing with?
Let me see, who do I know?
Harold Chandler?
Bill Talbot?
Jim Johnson?
Jack Austin?
Will Church?
Sam Price?
- Hey.
Hey.
What?
You got a ball
club of your own.
I'm tired of this game.
I don't like it.
I'm back from Detroit.
And I'm laughing again.
(SINGING) Not for just an
hour, not for just a day,
not for just a year, but always.
All right, Babe.
All right, hold it, Babe.
That's it.
Still.
Hand the ball to the kid now.
That's it, Babe.
Give us a big smile, Billy.
Can you sit up a little, son?
Hold it.
Oh, there you are, kid.
Now, let's have one with
your arm around the kid.
Can you look up at
Mr. Ruth now, sonny?
Hold it.
That's it.
Just one more.
Right, go right ahead.
Page one on every rag
from coast to coast, or I
go back to the copy desk.
That's enough, boys.
And once more, Billy,
I'm going to hit a home
run for you this afternoon.
And what's more, you
can pick your own field.
Left, center, or right?
What do you say?
Center field?
OK.
Hey, Babe?
Yes?
I wonder if you'll
autograph this for me.
I sure will.
Mr. Ruth, will you
autograph mine too, please?
Absolutely.
Keep your chin up, Billy.
Mr. Gehrig?
Will you put your
name on it too?
Sure.
You're quite a fan, aren't ya?
I haven't missed
a game this season.
Oh, yeah.
Thanks I like
to play baseball.
You'll play again.
Billy, you know there
isn't anything you can't
do if you try hard enough.
You think so?
Why sure.
Could you knock a home
run for me this afternoon?
You've already been
promised one by Babe Ruth.
Could ya?
Well, that's a
pretty tall order.
OK.
Could you knock two homers?
Two homers in a World Series?
Well, Mr. Gehrig, you said
that you can do anything
if you tried hard enough.
That's what you said.
Yeah.
OK.
I'll hit two homers for
ya, if you hit one for me?
Me?
You've got to promise
me that one of these days
you're going to get
up out of this bed
and go home on your own power.
But how?
If you want to do something
hard enough, you can do it.
OK, we can both
do it, can't we?
OK.
So long, Billy.
So long, Mr. Gehrig.
Lou.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: It's
just been definitely
announced that all threat
of rain has disappeared.
The World Series between
New York and St. Louis
will be resumed here this
afternoon as scheduled.
Good afternoon,
ladies and gentlemen,
this Bill Stern speaking from
Sportsman's Park in St. Louis.
This is the World Series
that will make history.
Go down in history.
Be history.
The Babe has just
stepped up to the plate.
The Babe's going to
try for the home run,
but it's not for the crowd.
I'll tell you
something the crowd
doesn't know anything about.
This one's going to
be for a little boy
in a St. Louis hospital.
It's an IOU from the Sultan of
Swat to a little crippled kid.
Will he pay it?
Ball.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: There
goes a home run out
in the center field bleachers.
Ruth's going to first base.
Yankees come up out
of their dugout,
a smile all over the faces
of the New York Yankees.
Miller Huggins has a grin
on his map from ear to ear.
Things aren't bad enough
here in St. Louis.
The next man up has
to be Lou Gehrig.
Ruth is coming into
home plate now.
Oh, Babe Ruth is
pretty good too.
Now, Gehrig is in the batter's
box, and in just a second,
I think we'll be all set to g--
Folks, this is going to be
a great day for little Billy
in the hospital.
I've just been informed
that Lou Gehrig has promised
to hit two home runs for him.
It's a home run for Lou Gehrig.
Whoopie.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: A
home run for Gehrig.
Gehrig puts it
right over the base.
He really delivered.
The Yankees have come
up out of their dugout,
Miller Huggins leading them.
What a duel, what
a duel this is.
A batting duel
between the two Kings
of Clout, Ruth and Gehrig.
Each one has knocked
out a home run,
but Gehrig has
promised two home runs
for that kid in the hospital.
Can he do it?
Here's a $10 says he can't.
Here's a $10 says he can.
Strike.
Catcher's down,
gives the signal.
Pitcher's got the ball.
Here's the wind up.
Strike.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: Strike two.
The ball is back to the
pitcher mound, takes his time.
Strike three, Gehrig's out.
Oh, Louie didn't want
Babe Ruth to feel too bad.
It's the sixth inning now.
Lou's at bat again.
After that second home run
for Billy, that little boy
in the hospital.
Strike.
Take it easy, Lou.
Take it easy.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: Gehrig seems to
be a little over anxious today.
He's reaching for some bad ones.
He's trying too hard for that
second home run for that kid.
That was a sucker bet, Blake.
I hate to take
that $10 from you.
You want to make it $20?
$20 it is.
Come on, Lou, hit it.
And he takes his bat
off his shoulder.
He's looking at it now.
Maybe he things
there's a hole in it.
Strike three.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: Strike three.
Oh, gosh.
Papa, maybe you better
call Lou on the long distance
and tell him to stop fooling.
Better hurry.
Lay down.
Safe.
Now, remember,
Lou, take it easy.
Don't press.
All we need is a single.
You might as well kick
in with a $20, Blake.
The game isn't over yet.
It's as good as over.
You want to make it $30?
It's a bet.
Here he is again.
Ball.
They're gonna pass him.
That's dirty pool.
Ball two.
Last time at bat in this World
Series, and if they walk him,
it'll fill the bases.
That's a lot better than giving
Lou Gehrig a chance to park
that apple over the fence.
Ball three.
Let them walk you, Lou.
Let them walk you.
Counts, no strikes,
three balls, two out.
Here it comes.
If you haven't got $30, I'll
take your left leg on account.
What do you think of that one?
Two home runs in one
World Series game.
He's really a man, that man.
From now on, they're going
to have to spell Gehrig's
name in capital letters.
Lou, Lou, Lou.
Gehrig, Gehrig, Gehrig.
Lou, Lou, Lou, Lou, Lou.
Gehrig, Gehrig,
Gehrig, Gehrig, Gehrig.
Hey, guys, how about
a half a dozen collars?
Go to it, boys.
Mr. Gehrig?
Mr. Gehrig, telegram for you.
Hey, don't tear my clothes.
Everything all right, Lou?
You live here?
No.
What are you doing here then?
I was calling on a young lady.
At 4:00 in the morning?
What for?
Well, if you must know, I
was calling on the young lady
to ask her to marry me.
I see.
And who are you?
My name's Lou Gehrig.
Lou who?
Gehrig.
Yeah, you look like him too.
I didn't recognize
you in the dark.
My name's O'Doole.
Glad to know you, Gehrig.
So you're gonna ask
her to marry ya, huh?
Yeah.
You knocked out a couple of
homers yesterday, didn't ya?
Yeah, I got a little lucky.
Yeah, well, hope you
have good luck today too.
Is Miss Twitchell at home?
What's she done?
Nothing.
Yet.
Wake her up and tell her
Lou Gehrig wants to see her,
will ya?
- Yes, sir.
Will you come in and
wait in the parlor?
Go on in.
Thank you.
You're kind of fidgety, huh?
Oh, yes.
[knocking]
4 Eleanor?
Eleanor?
What is it?
MAID: Policeman
wants to see you.
A policeman?
MAID: And a fellow
called Lou Gehrig.
I guess you don't
need me anymore.
MA GEHRIG: Louie should
be home most any minute.
I don't know what's keeping him.
Tessie, don't you see him yet?
Yes.
I love surprise parties.
Why didn't Lou home on the
same train with the team?
He missed the train.
He sent us a telegram.
I bet Lou will
be glad to get back
home after all that hotel food.
Yes, tonight we have
stuffed breast of veal
and tomorrow night fried eels.
Tessie, no sign yet?
Not yet.
I don't know
what's keeping him.
Papa's in there fussing
with the food again.
I give you the instructions.
You said you would tell Apfell.
Use got it wrong.
You have ruined everything.
Papa?
What is it, Papa?
This fool.
This dope.
Ain't my fault, Mrs. Gehrig.
I just delivered it.
What happened?
Look, they made Louie
a right-handed batter.
I didn't even
know what it was.
Mr. Apfell just told
me to deliver it.
The only one in American that
don't know Louie is a southpaw,
and he has to be our baker.
Maybe nobody will notice.
A right-hander.
Tessie, now?
Not yet.
What do you think
happened to the cake.
Now.
[whispering]
Mom?
Pop?
Where is everybody?
Surprise.
Oh, Mom, this is Ellie.
I mean, Eleanor Twitchell.
Hello, Mrs. Gehrig.
And this is my Pop.
Lou, that was some ballgame.
[interposing voices]
Mr. Jones and Miss
Martin, and Mrs. Larsen.
And Miss Larson.
Well, listen, folks, there's
something I've got to tell you.
Well, I guess there's only
one way to do this thing.
Ma or Mrs. Gehrig
meet Mrs. Gehrig.
Hey, what?
As soon as we get married.
Lou's done nothing but
talk about you, Mrs. Gehrig.
I'm so happy.
I've got some refreshments
in the other room.
You know what?
I brought you the ball we
used in the third game.
Did ya?
The trouble with you,
Mama, you are not modern.
A young fellow
nowadays, he's engaged.
He takes his girl
back to her hotel.
It's 10 minutes to the
hotel, 10 minutes back,
but it doesn't mean he
gets home in 20 minutes.
By the end of next season,
you can finish up in Chicago.
Then you can come back here,
get an apartment, and fix it up.
And then we'll get married.
And
I think she's giving
us a gentle hint.
Lou, do you think
your mother likes me?
Like you?
How can she help liking you?
I was just wondering.
She ought to be
jealous of you,
because you're so
pretty and everything.
I'm jealous of you myself.
I guess I was wrong.
About what?
Oh, nothing.
Night, Lou.
Good night.
I must say, Miss,
you picked out the most
beautiful number in the store.
Ellie, if you are
looking for a chifforobe--
I found it, Mom,
just what I want.
Isn't it lovely?
Don't look very practical.
And it looks secondhand too.
It's an antique.
Louie can afford
to buy new stuff.
I'll show you.
Look at that.
Strong and practical.
Last a lifetime.
Mom, I've worked
out sort of a scheme.
It was only a suggestion.
You see, the rug
in the bedroom--
The rug.
You remind me.
I'll show you.
Take a look at that.
It's exactly the right
size for your living room.
Oh, I was planning on
something more a pastel shade.
It's almost an exact
duplicate of the first rug
we had in our place.
Only more so.
That's why I bought it for you.
It's your wedding
present, Ellie.
I asked them to bring it up
to see how it would look.
You can live
with it for awhile,
and then if you don't like it--
I can send it back.
I promise, you
won't send it back.
Not with a scarf on it.
I just want you to let
me show you how it looks.
Will you let me, Ellie?
Certainly.
What's that?
The bedroom paper, Miss.
Well, you've made a mistake.
That's the wrong pattern.
This is the one I selected.
It was changed this morning.
Who changed it?
Isn't it beautiful?
But, Mama, this little
rose pattern I picked out--
I guarantee you wouldn't like
it if you saw it on the wall.
Neither would Louie.
Lou was with me
when I picked it out.
He liked it.
Oh, men like anything.
Louie, I never
give you much advice.
First, you wouldn't take it.
Second, I've been
married 35 years, Louie,
and I've learnt one thing.
Well?
Can't you read between the
lines, Louie, what I'm saying.
It's not anything I can
say in so many words,
and yet it's something that
if you don't handle it right--
Don't say anything
about this to Mama, hm?
About what?
ELEANOR: It's all right, Mama.
It doesn't make that
much difference.
And if you don't
like the chifforobe.
I'll probably get used to it.
You are very sweet, Ellie,
to admit you are wrong.
Oh, look, Louie,
the same wallpaper
we had when you
were a little boy.
What's wrong with Ellie?
Ellie?
Nothing.
She just left here.
What happened?
Was it about this?
The chifforobe?
It's not the one she ordered.
She wanted a--
It wasn't practical.
Not even mahogany.
The drawers were too small.
But she liked it.
She likes this
wallpaper too, at first.
But I convinced her
that pattern was better.
More practical.
Well, she's very
sensible, Louie.
You are lucky to
get a girl like her.
That's right.
Hey.
Huh?
Oh.
Ellie?
Just had a nice talk
with your mother-in-law.
What about?
Lots of things.
Mostly about interior
decorating, especially
wallpaper and chifforobes.
You know that wallpaper you
picked out for the bedroom?
I think it's wonderful.
Your mother picked
out another pattern.
I know.
I saw it.
And it's terrible, and
so is that chifforobe.
You mean the man
that just came in?
I mean, the one
that just went out.
I told them to take it back.
I'd have nightmares
looking at that thing.
Lou Gehrig, I think I
could learn to like you.
I hope you didn't
hear Mama's feelings.
I probably did, but
she'll get over it.
She'll have to.
You can't run a baseball
team with two captains
or a household with two bosses.
There's only going to be
one boss in this house.
So you better get that apron
off and get your nose powdered.
Why?
I just telephoned Sam
Blake to get the mayor of New
Rochelle over here right away.
What for?
I thought you
wanted to get married?
Giving the ring
and join hands.
Now, therefore, I, by virtue of
the authority reposed in me--
Sh.
I pronounce--
[drill]
I pronounce they
are man and wife.
Congratulations.
Come on, the party is over.
We've got to get this
house ready for living in.
Put the bathtub in there.
Thank you, sir.
Yes, sir.
Mr. Blake, Mr.
Blake, you better
arrange right away for a
leave of absence for Louie.
Leave of absence?
What for?
Your wedding trip.
Atlantic City would
be a good place.
Oh, excuse me.
I haven't missed a game
since I joined the team.
I'm not going to now.
Oh, he does,
I'll get a divorce.
You mean, you are not
going to have a honeymoon?
Of course, the Yankee Stadium.
Say, we better get
going if Ellie wants
to stop and change her dress.
Holy mackerel.
I'll miss batting practice.
[sirens]
Pull over.
50 miles an hour
on a thoroughfare.
55 to be exact, Officer.
I know it's terrible,
but it'll be
terrible if we don't get to the
Yankee Stadium in 15 minutes.
Oh, yeah, it'll be terrible
if you don't get there
for the start of the game.
It would be terrible if
Lou Gehrig doesn't get there
for the start of the game.
You know, he hasn't
missed a game
since he joined the Yankees.
Who'd you say?
Lou Gehrig.
Oh, hello, Mr. Gehrig.
Hi, Officers.
This is Mrs. Gehrig.
How do you do?
This is our 10th
wedding anniversary.
We've been married 10 minutes.
Oh, you just got married?
What do you know about that?
Pardon me,
Officer, but the game
starts in exactly 14 minutes.
Well, what are we waiting for?
You want to get pinched
for holding up traffic?
Who you got there, Joe?
Lou Gehrig.
He's late for the game.
It's Lou Gehrig.
Come on.
Strike.
That's the way to go in there.
What are you doing, Lou?
Knocking the rice
off your spikes?
All right, pitch to me now.
That was a thank
you for marrying me.
What?
That was a thank
you for marrying me.
What?
He says that was thank
you for marrying him.
And we thank you too.
You're welcome.
Not so bad for a guy who
nobody was going to remember.
One more kissing the
bride, huh, Mr. Gehrig?
OK.
Oh, that's terrific.
Hold it.
Thank you, Mr. Gehrig.
Now, what about the one where
the bride kisses the groom?
I never know you
were such a hound
for publicity, Mr. Gehrig.
Publicity?
I don't even care if there's
no film in their cameras.
All right, here we go.
Hold it.
OK.
A girl's gotta breathe.
Well, best of
luck to you, Lou.
Thanks, Babe.
You'll get a great play
on these pictures, boys,
taken the day that
Lou won all three
American League Championships,
batting average, home runs.
You got it wrong, boys,
this is the day I got married.
Oh, that's a good one.
You've got to forgive
me, honey, I was held up.
The boss had a brainstorm.
He gambled for two hours.
Finally, I said, look, Boss,
this is Lou Gehrig's birthday.
I'm master of
ceremonies, so goodbye.
How are you anyway?
I suppose Lou's sore at me, huh?
I wouldn't know.
What's going on here?
Where's Lou?
I was hoping he was with you.
With me?
Did he say-- well, I did
see him after the game.
He--
What time was that?
Well, it was kind of late.
You see, we hung
around for a while.
See, what'd he say
when he telephoned?
He didn't telephone.
Well, he-- he was
probably detained somewhere,
maybe something important.
No doubt.
Oh, Ellie, don't be like that.
You don't know
how lucky you are.
Most women, when their
husbands are late,
they got to worry,
because he's either drunk
or run into a dame or something.
But you with Lou, boy,
all you've got to do
is sit pretty and smile.
I'll bet this is
the first time he's
late since he's married ya.
This is the fourth time, Sam.
Well, that's nothing.
4 times in 10 weeks, that's
perfectly understandable.
Have you tried
calling up anywhere?
I don't have to call up.
I know where he is.
Now, Ellie, don't
talk like that.
You know Lou is true blue.
That's what you think.
And don't get hysterical.
Things like this
happen all the--
I'm not hysterical.
I'm perfectly controlled.
Just learned to face the facts.
Well, where you going?
I'm going to get him.
Well, you can't do that.
Oh, yes, I can.
Ellie, I tell
you you're wrong.
There's some explanation that
doesn't appear on the surface.
You know where he is?
Yes.
You sure?
How'd you find out?
I caught him.
I don't believe it.
I can't believe it.
Ellie, you've got to go back.
You can't walk in
on them like this.
Yes, I can.
I tell you you can't
afford to make a scandal.
Think of the fans.
Think how they'll feel.
Can't.
I'm too selfish.
Almost killed my
faith in human nature.
Lou Gehrig.
A guy with a wife like you.
Well, pal or no pal, I'm
going to take a baseball bat
and bust his skull wide open.
I'm going to make him
wish he was never born.
I'm going to hound that guy
for the rest of his life.
Well, of all the
dirty, low down tricks.
You almost made me have
a nervous breakdown.
What's the score, Lou?
23 to 22, end of the ninth.
Three men on bases.
He'll be right along now.
Don't talk to me, you Borgia.
Dad was right.
He knew a ballplayer
when he saw one.
When you said that,
the Chicago Rathskeller
jumped right up in my lap.
That wasn't yesterday,
was it, Tanglefoot?
No.
I sure didn't know what I
was walking into that day.
Mr. Gehrig, meet
Miss Twitchell, and I
left my little world behind me.
Your world?
What do you mean?
Baseball life's so different.
It's sort of a little
world all by itself.
You play it in the
spring, summer, and fall,
and talk about it in winter.
You really eat,
drink, and sleep it.
Yes, you have
had a dish of it.
And here it is, spring again.
Some Spring.
Spring for a ballplayer.
Florida next week again.
Look, how's this?
I suppose these spring
training trips must
be kind of dull for a girl.
How about you passing
up Florida this spring?
You know, taking a little
vacation for yourself.
All right, Lou.
It's been a long time since you
palled around with the team.
Give you a little vacation too.
We have seen a
lot of each other.
Yeah, it's an idea.
Yes, it is.
Ellie.
Oh, Lou, you don't want
to go without me, do you?
- No.
- You don't?
No.
Gotcha.
[whistle]
The winner.
Not only that,
you just handed me
my next story on a
silver platter, how
I beat my wife, by Lou Gehrig.
Nix.
It's a piparoo.
Over my dead body.
It'll kill them.
Lay off our private life.
Then what'll I write above?
About a half a column.
If I was in the middle of the
Sahara Desert, dying of thirst,
you'd bring me vinegar.
I'll see you at the ballpark.
Hey.
SAM: That's dirty pool.
Lou, why didn't
you want Sam to write
about your private life?
Because-- because
that's something that
belongs to just the two of us.
It's been a pretty good
little ole private life
at that, hasn't it?
Even though we
never had a honeymoon?
We've never had anything else.
[laughing]
Hey, what's the idea?
You want a bust in the nose?
Just trying to clean
up some of that poison
pen stuff of yours, that's all.
Look at that.
Gehrig's accidental
home run yesterday.
I'm only putting down
what Babe Ruth thinks.
Well, you don't
need paper for that.
You can write all that Babe ever
thought on a piece of confetti.
Oh, that was pretty brainy,
I suppose, you having Gehrig
call Ruth the Ex-King of Swat?
That's facts.
Gehrig's writing facts.
Ruth will show you some
facts in this column tomorrow.
Well, any facts Ruth dreams
up will be topped by Lou Gehrig
without borrowing
your opium pipe.
[doorbell]
Come in.
These just came, Mrs. Gehrig.
Thank you.
Hm, just like the kind
Mom used to try to make.
It's Mom's recipe, as
if you didn't know it.
[doorbell]
- Anybody at home?
- Hello.
Pop.
Hello, Ellie.
Hello, Lou.
- Mom.
See that breakfast?
Yes.
Lou's been raving about
your flapjack recipe, Mom.
Well, don't let him
eat too many, Ellie.
He'll get fat.
What if I do?
Then I can quit baseball.
What?
Quit baseball?
Louie, are you crazy?
I've always had a hankering
to go in for engineering,
you know that, Mom.
Engineering.
The best ballplayer
in the world should
waste his time like that.
Lou always told
me his Uncle Otto--
Uncle Otto, schmotto.
Digging ditches.
That's all he ever did.
The world is full of Otto's.
But how many Lou
Gehrig's are there?
Look at him.
Eating flapjacks on the most
important day of his life.
Important?
Don't tell me you have
forgotten what day this is?
My birthday?
No.
Ellie, I haven't forgotten?
No, it's not my
birthday either.
Or Mom's or Pop's, and it's
not our wedding anniversary.
I'm surprised at you, Ellie.
Today's the day Lou Gehrig
is playing his 2,000
consecutive baseball game.
So what?
What?
Look at him pretending
he don't care.
I've got an idea.
What do you say you
miss today's game?
They've gone crazy maybe.
No.
Don't you see.
It's no news when
Lou's in the lineup.
The real news is if
he misses a game.
Man bites dog, huh?
That's right.
Stop joking.
And come on, get
a wiggle on, you.
The ballpark will be
crowded, and the fans
will give you an automobile.
Why an automobile.
Maybe they will
give him a yacht.
Sure.
An automobile or a yacht
or the Statue of Liberty.
I'd better go, Ellie.
Well, all right, if that's
the way you feel about it,
but I warn you, all you'll
get is a horseshoe of roses.
Don't be so cynical, Ellie.
Good luck, Lou
Gehrig, on a ribbon.
You don't appreciate
Lou's importance, Ellie.
They'll give him an
automobile at least.
I say a yacht.
So you don't
appreciate my importance.
I'm going to get an
automobile or a yacht.
All right, all
right, if you insist.
But you'll come home with
a horseshoe of roses.
Safe.
Why don't he bunt?
What's the matter with him?
Bunt?
Three runs behind
and you want to bunt.
The unexpected, Mom.
Get onto yourself.
He should wait him out.
The pitcher has been missing the
corner since the sixth inning.
Is that so?
Why don't you tell McCarthy
how to run his job.
Shut up, Mom.
McCarthy is going great today.
He has pulled three
boners I know of.
And how would you like
to shut up yourself?
Say, why don't
you both shut up?
What?
No automobile?
No yacht?
I was lucky to get
away with my life.
Struck out three times.
Last time in the ninth
with the bases full.
If I had my way, darling, I'd
give you the Yankee Stadium.
Well, I wanted to knock
a home run for ya today.
Maybe I tried too hard.
Good luck, Lou Gehrig.
Good luck.
If they only knew what I know.
If they only realized what
lies back of those 2,000 games
you've played.
This is for the time in
Chicago you got beaned
and went on playing.
This for having brown eyes.
Hey.
That's for when you played
12 innings in St. Louis
with a broken toe.
Here's for being the
greatest fan a man ever had.
That's for when
you had 103 fever
and played a double-header.
This is for sitting up
all night and curing me.
This is for when yo had
the flu and wouldn't quit.
That's for not
letting me quit.
This is for all the times
you've had broken fingers
and not told me about them.
Here's for putting up
with me all these years.
I won.
Fair and square, I won.
Don't try to pretend--
what is it, Lou?
I must have sprained
my shoulder or something.
It felt kind of
stiff at the game.
Maybe that's why I struck out?
I'll get the liniment.
That's the one there.
Here we go.
Come on, the old hustle.
Come on, babe.
That's the one.
Those kids don't know
what to do with their speed.
Lucky you got out
of the way so quick.
Yeah.
Bill, what's the
matter with Lou?
You're out.
I certainly came down
here like an old ice wagon.
That should have
been a hit easy.
Ah, they can't all be hits.
I tell ya, Lou, maybe
you're trying too hard.
You can't try too hard.
Why don't you hit the shower
and take the rest of the day
off?
No.
I need a lot of work.
Well, the old man made it.
Six times around.
It's worse than
being a golf widow,
waiting for your husband
to run around a ballpark.
I'm sorry to be so long.
So, I'm slowing up, huh?
Oh, sure.
I'll get a wheelchair
and push you around.
What an exhibition.
You call that baseball?
Gehrig booted the game.
Threw it right down the drain.
Yeah, that's a batting
champion for you.
Did you see him swing
like an old lady?
It's criminal.
They ought to give you your
money back on a game like that.
That game was
just booted away.
I got better support than
that in the bush league.
Ah, shut up.
Well, I can't pitch
and play first base too.
That old man on first
outta have some crutches
to get around with.
What goes on here?
Just talked out of turn.
Save the fight
for the field, boys.
You watch, Gehrig
will come back.
He always does.
RADIO ANNOUNCER:
Every ballplayer
has a slump eventually,
but in Gehrig's case,
it isn't just a slump.
It's obviously a breakdown.
That's a lie.
Yeah, a dirty lie.
No, sir, he ain't through.
I tell you Mr. Gehrig
can't be through.
Gehrig will come back.
He's made of iron.
You wait and see.
15 years, and all of
a sudden, he goes sour.
What's the answer?
Gehrig must be having
trouble with his teeth.
Ow.
Get back.
Strike two.
Strike three.
Joe, you better send
someone in for me.
I-- I can't make it anymore.
You sure you want it that way?
Yeah.
Dahlgren, get
in there at first.
Good luck.
Thanks, Lou.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: Your
attention, please.
Dahlgren now playing first base
for New York, replacing Gehrig.
2,130 games.
14 years.
Play ball.
It's a routine,
I'm telling ya.
Why, in a place like
this, they give you
the x-ray, the cardiograph,
the metabolism,
the fluoroscope, the works.
Then they're liable to
tell you you got dandruff.
It's happened time and again.
I had a friend
come up here once--
Got any chewing gum, Sam?
Yeah.
I had a talk with the
doctor the other day.
He said he never ran up against
a better physical specimen.
Strong as an ox,
he said you were.
I talked with that
x-ray guy too, boy.
What a send off he gave ya.
Heart, OK.
Lungs, OK.
Everything, OK.
Lou, I'll bet you t--
here's the doctor.
How did I do, Doctor?
I'm afraid you'll have to
give up baseball for a while.
You see, Mr. Gehrig--
Go ahead, Doc.
I'm a man who likes to
know his batting average.
I've only made a superficial
examination of the tests.
We shall need some new x-rays.
Give it to me straight, Doc.
Am I through with baseball?
I'm afraid so.
Any worse than that?
You heard what
the doc said, Lou.
He's got to go over
the tests again.
Is it three strikes, Doc?
DOCTOR: You want it straight?
Sure I'd do.
Straight.
It's three strikes.
Doc, if I've
learned one thing,
all of the arguing in
the world can't change
the decision of the umpire.
How much time have I got?
[buzzer]
Pardon me.
Yes?
WOMAN ON INTERCOM:
Mrs. Gehrig is waiting.
DOCTOR: Have her
come up, please.
Doc, I don't want Mrs.
Gehrig to know ever.
I understand, but
the newspapers--
Sam here can
take care of that.
Can't you, Sam?
- Sure.
Sure, I will.
Leave it to me.
I'll cook up something to--
Hi, Ellie.
Well, darling, the verdict's in.
I'm not such a bad ballplayer,
I really got something.
Haven't I, Doc?
What is it?
Well, I'd be cured by the time
I could learn to pronounce it.
Can you pronounce it, Doctor?
We really haven't concluded
all our tests, Mrs. Gehrig.
[buzzer]
Excuse me.
Yes?
WOMAN ON INTERCOM: X-ray
room is ready, Doctor.
DOCTOR: Thank you.
Just one more
picture, Mr. Gehrig.
Just one more for
the record, eh, Doc?
Right back, Ellie.
Ellie, you'll never get all
the pictures they've taken
of Lou into that scrapbook.
Why, you'd think he
was a glamour boy.
What did the doctor tell Lou?
Nothing.
Nothing at all.
Some little thing with a long
name, some kind of an itis.
I don't know.
He'll have to lay
off for a while.
So what?
He'll be back next season
or the season after.
Tell me the truth, Sam.
I am telling the truth, Ellie.
Honest.
I swear it.
I'd swear on a stack of bibles.
You heard what the doctor said.
When is Lou going to die?
Who told you?
Nobody had to tell me.
I could read it in your eyes.
All of you.
Oh, it's all right, Sam.
I'll never let him know I know.
He's so young yet,
so strong and--
[whistling]
Ladies and gentlemen,
lemonade, peanuts,
and popcorn, giving
away free today in honor
of the great Lou Gehrig.
Bulletin.
Gehrig Day, not a
farewell, but a come on.
A ballyhoo to get more money out
of the Yanks when Gehrig comes
back to the game next season.
You know what?
We're going to knock them
dead when we come back, huh?
Say, do you think we can get
$50,000 out of those tightwads?
Not a cent under $100,000.
Stands to reason,
you'll be twice as
good after you've had a rest.
You know, we've never
had a honeymoon.
Why shouldn't we have one now?
Sure, better late than never.
Hey, what about
Niagara Falls, huh?
Sure.
And we could go up to northern
Canada and go fishing.
You know what?
I've been thinking
maybe we could
take a trip around the world.
Uh-huh.
All the things we've
never had time for before.
We have all the time in
the world now, haven't we?
Yeah, we got all the
time in the world now.
Hey, hey, you're a
scream in that moustache.
What's that?
Oh.
Take it out and see.
Open it.
I had that made up of some
of the hardware I collected.
Like it, Ellie?
Oh, Lou, I adore it.
I remember when you got
every one of these medals.
Yeah, that's the one I
get the most kick out of.
The batting championship I
won the year we were married.
Here, here, Ellie.
Oh, I've got a
right to cry a little.
It's such a beautiful thing.
I wanted you to have
it, Ellie, because--
because you've given me so much.
You've been so--
Are you making love
to me, you big ape?
You bet I am, you dope.
Gehrig Day program.
Lou Gehrig.
Oh, look, Russ, Lou Gehrig.
Right this way, Mr. Gehrig.
Stand back, boys.
Give them room.
Mr. Gehrig?
Oh, Mr. Gehrig, please?
Don't you remember me?
You knocked out two home
runs for me one afternoon.
Oh, sure, sure,
I remember you.
How are ya?
Just great.
I've been waiting here
all afternoon because I
had to tell you something.
I just got in town today,
and I have to tell ya.
I did what you said.
I tried hard, and I made it.
Look, I can walk.
Well, gee, that's
great work, kid.
That's wonderful.
Have you got a
ticket for the game?
Yes, sir.
You bet.
Well, so long.
So long.
62,000 people have jammed the
Yankee Stadium this afternoon
to pay a tribute to a
man who for 16 years
have given everything
that's in him.
Never in the history
of baseball has there
been such a spontaneous
demonstration of love
and affection for one man.
Perhaps you know him as
Larruping Lou and the Iron
Horse, but no matter
how you know him,
he'll never be forgotten,
nor will his great records.
They'll never forget
his greatest record
of all, his amazing
feat of playing
2,130 consecutive ballgames
over a period of 16 years.
Now, everyone is here today
to show Lou Gehrig just
what they feel in their hearts.
To say hail and farewell
to the pride in the
Yankees.
The emotion on all sides is
tremendous around home plate.
All the celebrities
standing there.
Now, the beginning
of the ceremonies.
Manager Joe McCarthy
comes forward.
Hands Lou Gehrig a plaque, and
on that plaque are two words,
don't quit.
Nothing in Gehrig's nature
were the quitter type.
As Joe McCarthy puts
the plaque down,
turns around, receives
a trophy, and in turn,
gets that trophy to Lou Gehrig.
The trophy is a trophy
from the New York Yankees,
the teammates of Gehrig.
They're trying to
tell Lou-- here
comes the mayor of New York
City, Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia.
LaGuardia addresses a few
words, perhaps telling him what
Gehrig has meant to this city.
Now LaGuardia turns
around, extends his hand,
and shakes hands
with Lou Gehrig.
Gehrig visibly impressed
with all this demonstration
of affection.
Postmaster General of the
United States, Tim Farley.
Farley walks over and
shakes Gehrig's hand.
Gehrig, again, trying
to manage a smile.
Now, Babe Ruth,
the Sultan of Swat.
Babe talks into the microphone.
Praise from the man
who preceded Lou
Gehrig in the batting order.
Number three and number four.
Babe Ruth walks over, puts his
arms around Gehrig's shoulders.
Here they are, the
heart of the Murderer's
Row of the New York Yankees.
Gehrig still with his
eyes down on the ground.
Now, manager Joe
McCarthy addresses
some remarks, which draw
him applause from the boys
themselves.
McCarthy walks over to Gehrig,
puts his hand affectionately
on his shoulder, and starts
leading Lou Gehrig over towards
a whole galaxy of microphones.
Lou Gehrig will be
saying a few words.
This whole crowd in
the stadium hopes so.
Gehrig stands in front of the
microphones visibly impressed,
all choked up.
Listen to that crowd.
I have been walking on
ball fields for 16 years,
and I have never
received anything
but kindness and
encouragement from you fans.
I have had the great
honor to have played
with these great
veteran ballplayers
on my left, Murderer's Row,
our championship team of 1927.
I have had the further honor
of living with and playing
with these men on my
right, the Bronx Bombers,
the Yankees of today.
I have been given fame and
undeserved praise by the boys
up there behind the
wire in the press box.
I have worked under
the two greatest
managers of all time, Miller
Huggins and Joe McCarthy.
I have a mother and
father who fought
to give me health and a
solid background in my youth.
I have a wife, a
companion for life,
who has shown me more
courage than I ever knew.
People all say that I
have had a bad break.
But today, today, I consider
myself the luckiest man
on the face of the earth.
[applause]
[music playing]